#summary What to do when releasing a new version
#labels Phase-Implementation

*This is for developers and porters only!*

No need to take this document too seriously. Common sense applies. :)

=Stable releases=

==Filenames==

When uploading a new stable release, please name the file as "klystrack-1.5.1.dmg" or such, adding the platform in the filename in case the extension might collide with another file. E.g. "klystrack-1.5.1-win32.zip" (some other platform might use the zip format).

==File description==

Please add a short description such as "AmigaOS4 port" etc. and use the same description across versions. If there are e.g. archive and installer files for the same release, please use a different description for each.

Add suitable tags, namely the {{{OpSys}}} tags and the {{{Type}}} tags, e.g. {{{OpSys-OSX Type-Archive}}}.

When adding a new latest stable build, please add the {{{Featured}}} tag and _remove the {{{Featured}}} tag from the older files!_ This makes the latest files visible on the main page so people can find them more easily.

If a release fixes a security or otherwise annoying bug (read: crash, data loss), deprecate the older releases with the issue. Working releases do not need to be deleted.

=Nightly/beta builds=

Please differentiate the unstable builds from the stable releases by using a filename that includes the revision somewhere and preferably add "nightly" there somewhere, too.

Please use the {{{Nightly}}} tag so the file stands out as a test build. Please deprecate (delete the file and select deprecate) if there are more than, say, three nightlies on the download page.