background = 0x0
main_text = 0xffffff
small_text = 0xffffff
button_text = 0xffffff

sequence_selected = 0xffffff
sequence_bar = 0x800000
sequence_beat = 0x000080
sequence_normal = 0x000000
sequence_disabled = 0xa0a0a0

pattern_normal = 0xa0c9d0
pattern_beat = 0x619fac
pattern_bar = 0xffffff
pattern_selected = 0xffffff
pattern_disabled = 0x808080

pattern_instrument = 0x00c8e8
pattern_instrument_beat = 0x009fba
pattern_instrument_bar = 0xffffff

pattern_volume = 0xa0c9d0
pattern_volume_beat = 0x619fac
pattern_volume_bar = 0xffffff

pattern_ctrl = 0xa0c9d0
pattern_ctrl_beat = 0x619fac
pattern_ctrl_bar = 0xffffff

pattern_command = 0x00c8e8
pattern_command_beat = 0x009fba
pattern_command_bar = 0xffffff

program_selected = 0xffffff
program_even = 0xd0d0e0
program_odd = 0xb0a0b0

instrument_selected = 0xffffff
instrument_normal = 0xc0c0c0

menu = 0xffffff
menu_selected = 0xffffff
menu_header = 0xffffff
menu_header_selected = 0xffffff
menu_shortcut = 0xffffff
menu_shortcut_selected = 0xffffff
